## AP Computer Science A

Friday, March 24, 2023

# Unit 10, Lesson 07: Recursion: Esoterica

## Work day. Catch-up day. Establish some momentum day.

Stats:

- 100% have a GitHub account and a forked repo. Well done!
- 4/9 have submitted PiDay.java
- 1/3 have submitted Shuffle
- 1/6 have submitted String sort/alternatives

Let's Prioritize:

1. Update [`Recur.java`](Recur.java) with your Recursion "Bell Ringer" errors.
   - To earn back points, complete them like #2, below.
2. Continue [`Recur.java`](Recur.java) until you have a handle on what recursion does.
   - See [`RecurKey.java`](RecurKey.java) for example solutions of the first two methods.
3. [SpellingBee lab](lab02bee/README.md) is FRQ-ish practice.
   - Stuck on "does this word only use the allowed letters"?
     - ask a neighbor. ask a teacher 👋. ask a [duck](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=check+array+is+subset+java) 🦆.
4. [PiDay](10-2.md#homework) is a recursive function.
   - Write a base case, then a recursive case. Even if your function returns pi = 27.
5. [Shuffle](10-4.md#homework): Do you understand how to swap array values?
6. [String Sort](10-5.md#option-b): Do you understand `.compareTo`?
   - Do you remember [autoboxing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B4nSv1SyXxWy8R_wUVfxyj-5Z0rx0TryMbtO3Vm19AE/edit#slide=id.g172ebc986fc_0_28)?
7. [Maze FRQ](MazeFRQ.md) is FRQ-ish practice.
   - FRQs are hard. FRQs have partial credit!
   - Code what you can figure out, and check that in.

Workflow:

- Begin: Sync your repo fork, "Pull" into your IDE.
- End: Commit your work. "Push" to GitHub.

## Let's learn something too

Become familar with:

- [Tail Recursion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tail_call) may apply when the recursive call is the LAST thing a recursive function does.
  - The Java compiler does not optimize tail recursion, alas.
- [Dynamic Programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_programming#Computer_programming) can mitigate the recursive Fibonacci "exponential calls" problem.

## Next Week

- Monday: Merge Sort!
- Tuesday: Recursion Review
- Thursday: Recursion Exam
- Friday: Welcome to Boot Camp 👢🥾

## Sponge: Tail Recursion

Consider the following recursive method, invoked with `kartoffel(131072)`:

```
public static void kartoffel(int n) {
    int a = n % 10;
    if (n / 10 == 0) {
        return a;
    } else {
        return a + kartoffel(n / 10)
    }
}
```

Is this function tail recursive?
