## AP Computer Science A

Tuesday, March 28, 2023

# Unit 10, Lesson 09: Assignment review

Week 3 of Student Teacher. We are totally figuring this out.

## Essential knowledge

- What does this recursive function return?
  - The **base case** makes recursion stop.
  - The **recursive case**, calls the same function with a **changing argument**, approaching the base case.
- Sorting:
  - Bubble, Insertion, and Selection sort exist, and work by comparing and swapping element in an array.
  - Recursive sorting functions: Merge sort, and Quicksort. These work recursively, by "divide and conquer"
- Searching:
  - Linear/Sequential check each element in an array for a match. If there are many elements, this takes a while.
  - Binary search can find things in a **sorted** array, by guessing in the middle.
    - Binary search finds things in log2(n) time.

## The Week Progresses

AP exam in [35 days](https://days.to/until/3-may). Minus weekends? Minus spring break? Minus Wednesdays? 🔜

Let's wind up recursion and get on with the AP Exam review.

Recursion exam on Thursday!

- ~~Monday: Recursive sorts 🃏 and discuss Maze FRQ~~
- Tuesday: Bell Ringer. Homework review: PiDay, Shuffle, String sort. Q&A re: Exam?
- Thursday: Recursion exam. SpellingBee review? Boot Camp trailer.
- Friday: Welcome to Boot Camp! Maze FRQ review.

## Warm-Up - Bell Ringer (OOP)

Just one question, or else it will take up too many pieces of paper.

## Homework Extravaganza!

Together we shall triumph!

### PiDay

Review `PiDay.java`. Who wants to drive?

How did it go for you? It did not go well for me. 🙂

-- stack overflows
-- `Integer.MAX_VALUE`
-- `double` [precision](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_754#Basic_and_interchange_formats)

### Shuffle

- Porting Pseudocode
- Random and ranges
- Array exchange/swap

### String Sort

- compareTo
- autoboxing

## Exam Q&A or Option C explainer or ...

Option C explainer: [`Solver.java`](Solver.java)

- Recursion is about making a simpler verion of the problem.

Priorities

1. Recursion Review
2. Do I know how to commit my work?
3. MazeFRQ
4. AP Classroom
